- [Instructor] Now let us understand
the second way of exchanging the session id
between the client and the server,
which is URL rewriting.
Now, this is a fallback option and it is going to kick in
only when the cookies are disabled in your browser software.
Generally, today in all the websites, cookies have to be
enabled because there are loads of websites running on the
internet, which work with cookies, so you really
can't disable them today.
Nevertheless, if they are disabled, we need to have
another way of exchanging the session ID between
the client and the server.
Let's understand what it is.
When you talk about URL rewriting, as the name suggests,
you are rewriting the URL, and when we say rewriting,
you're basically appending some information at the end
of the URL.
That information is nothing but the session ID.
So let's understand this.
Let's say this is your basic URL,
which you have attached to your hyperlink
or maybe your form action element.
Anything like that on your page.
Now to this URL, we're going to rewrite some information.
How is that going to look like?
This is what it looks like.
There's a semicolon separator and after that,
the session ID is in the form of a key,
and that long value that the server generates.
Now this separator of semicolon and the j session
name of the parameter, are very specific to the tomcat
container software that we are using.
However, if you go ahead and choose any other JEE
compliant server, then in that case the separator
and the name of this parameter could possibly be different.
So this URL rewriting is something that the server
will do for us,
but we as developers need to encode all the necessary URLs.
All the URLs that you attach to your hyperlinks
or form action elements or whichever elements on
your page that you have,
you will have to explicitly encode those URLs.
How do you encode them?
Basically you invoke an API for it, we'll take a look at it
in the demo anyway.
But the point is that until you encode these URLs,
the server would not enable the URL
rewriting process for you.
It will obey your command for URL rewriting
only if you tell it to do it.
So that's something that we have to do.
This could be a little tedious option because there
may be really large number of URLs in your project
and you may really have to sit and encode all of them
on every page.
But yes, this is definitely going to be the case
if your cookies are disabled.
So this is the only way then of exchanging the session IDs,
or you will have to implement URL rewriting.
Right.
In the next video we're going to understand this URL
rewriting demo.
Let's understand the use case for it.
So this is my application.
I'm going to click on the login hyperlink.
And let's say I enter credentials.
For this demo, we are going to assume that it's going
to be a successful login.
So I'm definitely entering the correct credentials.
Now, once I login, we are going to do the
session management.
Right.
Once we do the session management and when you
come to the home jsp,
these links of order history and view my profile
are very specific to this user's login.
It means that if I click on view my profile,
I should get some information.
Fine.
But let's say a user comes in, copies this URL
and tries to maliciously access it on some other machine,
then it is a problem.
Or let's say the session itself times out on this machine,
then it's a problem.
Right.
So we'll handle all of that in the subsequent parts
of the code, but for right now what we need to understand
is when I click on view my profile,
the session that I had setup on the click of login
should continue and I should be able to see the username.
Right.
So when I click on this link, I will write a servlet
and there we're going to fetch that username from the
session to verify that the session management is indeed
working correctly.
Now this entire demo that we're going to do is
with URL rewriting way of session management.
So let's take a look at it in the next video.